-: Welcome back.
So in this lecture,
we are going to look into the pods demo.
So let's go ahead and then do that now.
So we'll go to our GitHub repo
in stack simplify Kubernetes fundamentals GitHub repo.
So we are going into pods
with kubectl 02 pods with kubectl.
So we are going inside.
And just now we have completed the step one
which is nothing but the pods introduction.
So we are moving into the pods demo now.
So first thing what we need to do is,
whether our worker nodes are ready.
So we need to say kubectl, get nodes to check that.
So kubectl,
get nodes.
And our worker nodes are ready.
And if you want to see them with wide options,
so you can say -O and then wide.
So it also provides additional information
about our worker nodes, our worker nodes internal IP
and our worker nodes external IP,
which is nothing but our external internet facing IP address
for our worker nodes.
So now moving on.
So let's go to the pods.
So we are going to create a pod.
So to create a pod, we can use kubectl run.
As we are going to do this in an imperative way,
not a declarative way.
So we are going to say kubectl run and our pod name
which is nothing but my first pod
and the image, what you are going to download.
So I have prebuilt container image
which is stacksimplify/kubenginx1.0.0 so we can use it.
So it is already publicly available on my Docker hub.
So if you see here, kubenginx:1.0.0
which is the tag.
So we have multiple versions here.
Whenever we are moving on with the replica sets,
we are going to go inside deployments and then services.
We are going to use different versions
to understand in different manner.
But for now we are going to use the,
stacksimplify/kubenginx1.0.0 tag.
So let's come back here and then use that.
And then we also have additional tag named generator
is called to run-pod/vba.
So this is required to create pod as a pod
instead of a deployment.
So this is one important note here.
So if you want to, you are just creating pod
and then you're doing the pod's demo.
Where do you want your command to automatically
create a deployment, which is another core concept
and then get confused with that.
So that's the reason we need to use this tag.
But when we move on to the very latest version,
which is nothing but 1.18 version
which is very recently released.
So you really don't need to even add this tag.
Kubernetes has done a lot
of cleanup with the kubectl run command
and we really don't need it.
But I am currently using 1.16 version.
So that's the reason I'm going to use this.
So let's copy this command and run it here.
Our pod got created.
So we can go ahead
and then list our pods using kubectl get pods.
And my first pod is ready and then running.
So one important thing here is,
for our pod, if you want to even get pivo, right?
So this pivo is nothing but the earlier soft pod.
So you can give a shortcut, you can say, right?
So it's the same thing.
So now you have listed your pod.
If you want, you can even use the -O
and then wide option to see more information
about your pod.
So earlier you have seen only till H
but now you are seeing the IP address of your pod
which is nothing but your application.
So your IP address of your pod is provided here
and on which node it is hosted also, you can see.
In this respective node, it is running.
So we have 118 and then 145 here.
And out of which this pod,
we are only running a single pod
and it is currently present on 118 node.
So next is,
what happened in the background, right?
So we need to understand what happened in the background.
So Kubernetes created a pod. What happens?
So when we see that using the described pod,
we'll come to know.
So let's go ahead and then describe our pod.
So kubectl described pod and then pod name is the syntax.
So let's go ahead and then describe our pod here.
So we can see the events here successfully
assigned a default my first pod to this respective node
which is nothing but the worker node.
Then it pulled the image from the Docker hub, right?
And it successfully pulled the image
and created the container inside the pod
and started the container.
So that's what happened in the background.
So that is about what happened in the background.
So we can see in the evens portion of the described command.
So now what is this described command?
So the described command is the very important
command which helps us in troubleshooting.
So if our application has been deployed
and the parties in pending state are crash loop back
off state are in different states,
you can directly go into the describe command
and then verify what happened in the events.
And also here also you can see additional information
about the same thing.
So if you see here,
the name of the pod is my first pod
and it has deployed to the name space default
and in which node it has deployed
it is showing in the described pod.
So you'll get end-to-end lots
of information about everything.
So what is my pod IP you are seeing here?
And in addition to that,
from where it has pulled the container
all these image ID and then information it is providing
whether it is started, ready, true, all these information
you can see everything in that described command.
So it's always good to understand.
It always means like when you have an issue,
first start with the described command
and then go to the logs, kubectl logs.
So we'll see that later.
Okay. So now the next thing is access application.
So currently, we have created a pod.
And this pod we will be able to access directly
from our worker nodes.
We can log into worker nodes and then access it currently.
But how we are going to access it externally via internet.
So that's our core thing, right?
So to access it externally, we need to create a service.
In our next lecture, we are going to focus on that.
But for now, we created the pod,
so let's go ahead and then delete the pod also.
So using kubectl, delete, we can delete our pod.
So first you'll say kubectl get pods
and we got the pod.
So I'll say kubectl, delete pod,
and my pod name, right?
So I'll copy and then paste it.
So my first pod.
So my pod is getting deleted.
And once it is deleted,
so let me clear and I'll say kubectl get pods
and I don't have anything in the default name space.
So that's about the pods.
In our next lecture, we'll focus on creating a service
and accessing this pod via internet.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye. Thank you.